[[sect_annotation_activeLearning]]
=== Active Learning
Active learning is a family of methods which seeks to optimize the learning rate of classification
algorithms by intelligently soliciting labels from a human user for which the system only has low
confidence. This means that recommenders can make better suggestions with less user interactions,
allowing the user to perform quicker and more accurate annotations.

Once the recommenders are set in the <<sect_projects_recommendation, Project Settings>>, and assuming
the project contains documents for annotation and enough annotations for recommenders to generate
recommendations, one can now switch to the annotation page. The recommendations should be shown above the tokens:

image::activeLearning1.png[align="center"]

One can now click the active learning icon on the left side and the Active Learning sidebar shows up
. One can now select the layer like POS layer for annotation and click _Start_ for starting an
active learning session:

image::activeLearning2.png[select, 350, 350, align="center"]

The Active Learning sidebar will then start showing recommendations, one by one, according to the
_uncertainty sampling_ learning strategy. For every recommendation, it shows the related text, the
suggested annotation, the confidence score and a delta that represents the difference between the
given score and the closest score calculated for another suggestion made by the same recommender to
that text. The recommendation is also highlighted in the central annotation editor.

One can now _Accept_, _Reject_ or _Skip_ this recommendation in the Active Learning sidebar:

image::activeLearning3.png[align="center"]

The acceptance, rejection or skipping will be recorded and displayed in the learning history of the
Active Learning sidebar. After a suggestion is accepted, the text is annotated with that recommended
 annotation. If the user rejects a suggestion, the recommendation is deleted. Finally, if the user
 skips a suggestion, that recommendation will continue being shown in the central annotation editor.
Eventually, it could be shown again at the end of the active learning session, when there are no
more undealt suggestions.

image::activeLearning4.png[align="center"]

After the user takes an action on the current suggestion, the next recommendation will then show up
in the sidebar, and the central annotation editor will jump to its corresponding location (which
could sometimes be in another document).

The learning history contains a log of all the actions that were taken by the user regarding the
suggestions given by the recommenders (acceptances, rejections and skippings). Clicking on an item
of the learning history will make the central editor jump to the corresponding place in the document
. Any entry in the learning history can be deleted by clicking the corresponding trash bin icon. If
this learning history is a valid acceptance, after the learning record is deleted, a confirmation
dialogue box pops up to confirm whether to delete the annotation too.

The user may finish the current active learning session whenever he wants. If there are pending
suggestions, they might be shown in the next active learning session that he starts. +